docs(ux-writing): Adds conversation design and chatbot guidelines. (#4206)
patternfly/patternfly-org: packages/documentation-site/patternfly-docs/content/AI/conversation-design/conversation-design.md

---
id: About conversation design
section: AI
subsection: Conversation design
---

# What is conversation design?

**Conversation design** is a subset of UX that's focused on the design of conversation between humans and technology, most often through chatbots or voicebots. The goal of conversation design is to create an interactive experience that resembles human-to-human conversation as much as possible.

> It is important to align conversation design with the established [PatternFly brand voice and tone](/ux-writing/brand-voice-and-tone), as well as our [AI guidelines](/ai/ai-guidelines) and [principles.](/ai/about-ai)

Reviewer: Will these links exist?

- **Strategy:** Based on goals, expectations, and desires of users. 
    - Develop an understanding on your audience through existing research, personas, and interviews.
    - Decide on an approach for the chatbot's personality, voice, and tone.
    - Outline the paths that a user could take in a chatbot conversation, as well as the consequences of veering off a path. 

- **Writing and design:** Following the strategy you develop, write the chatbot's dialog, including questions and responses. 
    - Typically write messages for welcome, opt-in, global help and stop requests, quick replies and buttons, and re-engagement messages. 
    - Start with an outline and fill in the gaps. 
    - By being reliable, predictable, and transparent, build trust and confidence that your chatbot can deliver what it says it will. 

- **Prototyping and testing:** Create a working prototype, test it, and iterate as needed.
    - Use a prototyping software to build the chatbot flows.
    - Identify any points of friction or error. 
    - Check with stakeholders that the chatbot is helping users meet the right goals.

## Best practices 

> These best practices for conversation design will help ensure that your users needs are met and that their experience with your chatbot is positive and painless. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These best practices for conversation design will help ensure that your users' needs are met and that their experience with your chatbot is positive and painless. 
```

- Reference your chatbot's goal in your opening and keep it the focus throughout the conversation.
- Be clear. Keep it short and simple. Try to stick to 3 lines of text in a message. Only send 1 to 3 messages before allowing a user to provide input. 
- Avoid open ended questions. If you ask any, make them very simple, increase pause time between messages, and tell users when they should type. 
- Be direct. Limit choices for users as much as possible and provide examples when you can.
- Frame questions in terms of value for the user.

> - Unlike traditional content design, *don't lead with the benefit.* End with the benefit to be sure that its read and acted upon. Users should be able to complete an action solely based on a chatbot's last sentence. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unlike traditional content design, *don't lead with the benefit.* End with the benefit to be sure that it is read and acted upon. Users should be able to complete an action solely based on a chatbot's last sentence. 
```
